---
header:
    teaser: /assets/images/Az104Badge/azure104badge.png
title: "Az104: Exam Results!"
layout: single
date: 2020-07-09 21:05
categories: [Azure]
---

After many hours and evenings spent studying today I sat and successfully passed the Az-104 exam with a passing score of 857 (700 required to pass)! I was lucky enough to receive a voucher which entitled me to sit a Microsoft exam, after having some experience with Azure I set my eyes on earning the Az104 qualification. I felt that I could've happily sat the Az-900 fundamentals course but I wanted to push myself to get an achievement that was outside the comfort zone and something I'd have to work for to achieve. The only way I knew I'd force myself to prepare for the exam would be to just book it, so back towards the middle of June that's what happened. I booked it up and provided myself roughly 22 days of preperation time to iron out the cracks and fill in any voids from my original knowledge.

I wanted to write this post just to provide my thoughts on the exam, remote exam taking as well as the steps I used to prepare for the exam. I will say that these are completely my views and from my experience, they do by no means act as gospel for your experience.

# Resources Used

First off, I didn't go from complete novice to passing the exam within 22 days, whilst it may be possible for some I relied on my existing knowledge that I had from clicking around the portal every now and then. I had the bare basics down but anything further was a little cloudy.

## Microsoft Learn Docs

I want to start this section off by saying that [these documents](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/exams/az-104) are fantastic! They seem to be kept up to date regularly and provide a rich, hands on learning experience that enable you to carry out key concepts in a sandbox environment to understand how Azure functions and how the subject matter functions. Reading about how to deploy a machine is one thing, actually carrying it out further cements this! There is a limit on the amount of sandbox environments (10) you can have per day and some exercises do require your own subscription, but this brings me nicely onto my next point.

## Azure Free Account

If you haven't already then creating a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/free/) for Azure is possibly one of the best ways to get familiar with the tools, this enabled me to not only complete the exercises within the learn documents but also experiment further and really see how each service is deployed. You get £150 worth of free credits to use within 30 days, which is more than generous for testing purposes as chances are once you've tested a service you can delete it to keep the costs down. Ultimately Azure is one of those subjects that you have to play around with in the portal to fully understand what you're doing. I'd highly recommend setting this up, after all it is free!

## Pluralsight/Udemy

Fortunately, I'm provided with a pluralsight account from my employer. This had a lengthy, 30+ hour video pathway (essentialy series of videos) based around the Az103 exam. Whilst this wasn't originally aimed for the 104 exam it did cover a majority of the same content and looked to be slowly getting updates to bring it inline with the latest syllabus. I used the pluralsight library if I needed a quick look at a particular service or if I wanted to have an 'easy' evening of study. 

I'm aware that not everyone has access to the pluralsight library and if watching video content and following along is your thing then luckily I have a recomendation [this udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/70533-azure/) by Scott Duffey. Udemy normally has some fantastic deals on that enable you to pick up the courses at the £11.99-19.99 mark, this course has largely already been updated for the 104 exam and provides a high level overview of everything you need to know! A great recommendation if video courses are up your alley.

## Writing my own content

I'm a firm believer in the concept of being able to explain a subject to an indvidual who has no/little knowledge demonstrates the fact that you understand the subject. Therefore I attempted to write my own posts to cover the Syllabus, in hindsight this was a bit ambitious. I did however get through managing users and groups, so that's something... right? I'd have liked to continue this and write more in preperation as I feel like this did help my understanding. Unfortunately time resitrctions meant that I would've risked not covering topics where my own knowledge was lacking. Who knows I may look to carry this on now the exam is over.

## Microsoft provided labs

Microsoft kindly provides a [Git repositry](https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/AZ-104-MicrosoftAzureAdministrator) which contains a wide range of labs as well as the files required to follow along. This does require your own subscription but can be paired nicely with the free account mentioned above. Completeing these help to gain an understanding of how the portal flows and how certian tasks are carried out.

## Whizlab Practice Exams

With a week to go till exam day it suddenly dawned on me that I had no real exposure to what the exam was going to be like or how it was going to play out, from a rather panicked search I found that the community held [whizlabs](https://www.whizlabs.com/) in rather high regard when it came to practice exams, luckily they also had 50% off at the time! Whizlabs provide a few sample question for free and the option to buy the exams or video content later down the line. I chose to go with just the exam pack as I already had the video content covered. These practice exams were perfect, the questions were very close to those of the real thing and gave me just what I needed to settle the nerves in the final few days leading to my exam. Reviewing the answers, and seeing where I was going wrong definetely helped to pick up a few marks! - On the back of this I will say that you do have to read the answers given as sometimes they aren't always 100%, the whizlab team seem pretty happy to help so if you spot a wrong answer flag it up.

# Exam Day

I must say I was pleasently pleased with the overall process of taking an online exam, I'd definetely do it again over going to a test centre, the flexibilty of extra times as well as not having to leave your own house made it a win in my books! I'd highly recommend those that are on the fence to give it a go.

Overall, pretty happy with the result and the whole process! Hopefully the points I covered can help someone else if you're looking for resources to help prepare!